THIS AUDIOVISUAL WORK IS BASED
ON THE FACTS NARRATED ON THE BOOK
THE TWO HEMISPHERES OF LUCCA
BY BÁRBARA ANDERSON.
CERTAIN EVENTS, SCENES,
CHARACTERS, AND DIALOGUES
HAVE BEEN ALTERED FOR DRAMATIC PURPOSES.
How about you? Still think it's a boy?
It's not that I think it's a boy.
It is a boy!
-It kicks like a girl.
-It doesn't.
-What?
-It does. Boys kick harder.
What do you know?
-Do you feel that?
-Yes.
It's ready.
It is ready.
-Hi, good evening.
-Hello.
-Hi.
-I think I'm in labor.
The doctor told me to come
when the contractions were regular.
And now they're like ten minutes apart.
Or less.
-Is this your first birth?
-Yes.
-And has your water broken?
-No.
It could still take hours… or days.
-Listen…
-Yes?
I would recommend
for you to go get some rest
and come back when the contractions
are about five minutes apart.
-Okay.
-All right.
What?
-Oh, well.
-Let's see.
No. Easy, breathe.
Help. Breathe.
-Monkey. Are you okay?
-Here's another one.
Another one. And it's been less
than three minutes since the last one.
-No, I need that.
-You won't need it. Don't worry.
Where's my husband?
He's getting changed.
He shouldn't be long.
-Be careful with the IV.
-Come on…
Lift your legs.
Dilation is at six centimeters.
We'll give you an epidural.
Doc.
-Help me turn her.
-Yes.
Okay, ma'am. Come on.
You'll feel a little sting.
On the next contraction,
push really hard, okay?
-Let's see.
-Hi, Monkey.
There we go.
-Let's see.
-Everything will be fine.
Push, mommy. Push.
Harder, mommy!
-I can't.
-You can do it, Bárbara.
-One more push, and that's it.
-The baby has bradycardia.
-Come on.
-Push.
One more push, and that's it.
Come on, mommy.
Push harder. Push, mommy.
-Heart rate dropping.
-Come on, Bárbara.
BASED ON THE BOOK
THE TWO HEMISPHERES OF LUCCA
Push, mommy, harder.
-One, two…
-A spark.
Excuse me, I'm leaking milk.
When will you bring me my baby?
One moment. I'll go ask.
Okay, thanks.
Good morning.
As the doctor explained,
we need to wait 72 hours
for brain swelling to subside.
In the meantime,
we have him in an induced coma.
Well, I'll leave you
with him for a little while.
Thank you.
Hi, sweetie.
Hi, baby.
Oh, Luquita, forgive me.
Forgive me for not knowing how to push.
Oh, sweetie.
I promise you I'll fix this.
I promise I won't rest until you are well.
WHAT HAPPENED TO US?
The first tests they did to you
when you were only three days old
seemed to be good news.
We thought, "The hardest part is over."
But ten days later, everything changed.
The giant scar that oxygen deprivation
caused in your brain
wouldn't let you talk or walk
or control your movements.
Some doctors suggested
that the damage in your brain
wouldn't even let you know
that I'm your mom.
But I never believed them, Luqui.
And when your brother was born,
it became clearer.
Bruno always knew how to enter your world
and how to communicate with you.
He's the best thing
that's ever happened to you.
But still, watching him run
and explore the world out there
makes my frustration
of seeing you trapped even bigger.
TRAPPED
That's why we've tried
and will keep trying everything.
Every therapy, every new machine.
Every new doctor
and every treatment is new hope.
NEW HOPE
Your future remains a mystery.
We still don't know
all the limits that restrain you.
But we're a team.
We'll stay together until the end.
Every day and every night,
until we find the way.
LUCCA'S WORLD
Good morning, my love.
How are you, sunshine?
Can you help me hold him?
Monkey. Hi, Luquita.
Has anyone seen Pipo Rex?
Can you pass me a diaper, Monkey?
Do you know why Lucca
isn't eating his purée?
Why?
It has papaya. He doesn't like it.
Really? And how do you know?
Because papaya tastes
like rotten cheese in a diaper.
Of course not.
Papayas are delicious.
Thousands of children
in Iceland would kill to try one.
How about we send one to them?
No, he doesn't like it.
Yes he does. Right, Lu?
Can I leave the car with you,
and you take Lucca?
Yes. I'd have to leave now.
I have that interview.
Oh, right. Good luck.
Something good?
I don't know about the pay. We'll see.
Oh, I forgot to tell you.
They moved the rehab
to eight o'clock. Can you make it?
Swimming class?
No, the appointment
with the new physiotherapist.
The one who also uses
the magnets. I told you.
No.
When I get off work, I'll pick up Lucca.
We'll have lunch with you guys.
Then we'll go to the allergist.
Then we'll get the new insoles
that still need adjustment.
You wait for them to be ready.
I'll take them to swim class.
I'll bring Bruno home,
and you take Lucca to the new therapy.
All of that is today?
Are you crazy?
We'll end up in the hospital.
Don't overreact.
This is why I married you.
And because of your looks.
These are ready
for you to review when you can.
Good morning.
Hi, Fanny.
BUSINESSWOMAN OF THE YEAR
Good morning, guys.
Hi, Bárbara.
Hey, you never sent me the calendar.
-Yes, I sent it to you earlier.
-Why are you up at three in the morning?
Barbie, good morning.
Hello.
They just confirmed Lizárraga.
Think we'll have time
for him to be our cover?
I swear I was going
to make it on time, Monkey.
The interview was rescheduled
at the last minute, really.
It's fine. I'll pick up
the insoles tomorrow.
Okay? See you at home.
-Bye.
Maybe you wonder
why we run all the time, Luqui.
Why we spend our afternoons
going from one therapy to another.
What am I looking for
when I know nothing changes?
But I need to open
all the doors that are closed to you.
Carry your chair
up all those stairs with no ramps.
Do what the world denies us every day.
Lucca? Lucca, are you okay?
Bárbara!
He's having a seizure!
Okay…
-How long has it been?
-It just happened.
Fifteen, sixteen.
Seventeen, eighteen…
Monkey, I'm here.
You were right when you said
we'd end up in the hospital. I feel awful.
No, I didn't mean it like this.
You do everything right, Monkey.
Oh, you're freezing. Here.
How was it?
Awful?
-Yes.
-I'm sorry.
There we go.
Lucca, how come you're
such a handsome boy, huh?
You know?
When I was your age,
I liked to imagine I could fly.
I imagined going up
to the top floor of the school,
jumping off, and flying away.
And you, my Luqui?
Have you ever imagined you can fly?
Give me your hand.
That's it.
It's eight o'clock.
I have an interview in an hour.
Seriously?
-Yes.
-Can't you reschedule?
No. Do I look awful?
From one to ten?
Watch it.
Bye.
Hello.
Damn it!
So awful.
All right, talk to you later.
Mr. Alberto, a pleasure. Bárbara Anderson.
Likewise. Please have a seat.
Thanks.
We're very excited about your profile.
-They told you that you'll be the cover?
-Yes, thank you very much.
Have you had breakfast?
-Want anything to drink?
-Yes. Don't worry.
I'll order something.
-Is everything okay?
-Yes.
Listen, I'm sorry for being pushy,
but are you okay?
Do you really want to know?
Well, yes.
My son Lucca had an epileptic seizure
yesterday at the swimming pool.
And we rushed him to the hospital,
he was admitted…
I came straight here
after pulling an all-nighter.
Tell me, was it the first time
this had happened to him?
No. His condition makes him susceptible.
What is his condition?
Infantile cerebral palsy… severe.
Is he on any treatment
to improve his condition?
Unfortunately, no.
There's no treatment to make him better.
The damage is irreversible.
But how can there be no treatment?
There's treatment for everything.
Isn't your job to investigate?
Excuse me for saying this,
with all due respect,
you have no idea--
No, hold on.
Hold on, that came out wrong.
Tell me something.
Do you know who Bruno Bernardi is?
-The former Secretary of Economy.
-Exactly.
He had a very serious
cardiovascular event.
It left him unable to speak or walk.
Everybody told him he wouldn't recover.
But he underwent treatment
with a very skilled Mexican doctor
who works in India.
And guess what? He recovered.
Trust me, these aren't
any miracle drops or the like.
In fact,
I've got a video
so you can see for yourself.
DAY ONE
They put him in that machine
every day for a month.
DAY TEN
DAY 25
Look how he started walking again.
He couldn't believe it himself.
Is this real?
In fact, it's scientifically supported.
And I've got
his attending physician's number.
In fact…
If you don't mind,
we'll give him a quick call.
Jaramillo!
Were you asleep?
Oh, right! I forgot you're in India.
Listen, since you're up already,
I need you to help
a friend who's here with me.
Her son has cerebral palsy.
I told her about your invention.
After my donation,
you can't say no to me, can you?
Here.
-Hello.
-Hi.
What happened?
After every epileptic seizure,
Lucca is knocked out
for one or two days, unable to eat.
That leads to more episodes.
It's a cycle that's putting
his life at risk.
Do you understand?
I'm not thrilled,
but I think we'd better
start considering the G-button.
I understand your point, Doctor,
but we'd need to consider
the new limitations
the device would bring Lucca.
If he can't use his mouth to eat,
much less to speak, Doctor.
Look, everything indicates
that Lucca's situation won't improve.
He can't go on so malnourished.
I say…
Thank you.
From day one,
they've told us everything is wrong.
And the change
in Bernardi's video is truly amazing.
Yeah, but his case is different.
Listen, Bernardi was also told
he'd never recover,
and he started walking again.
Let's talk to this doctor
before we decide.
You know my opinion on miracle treatments.
I think they don't work.
Well, we have nothing to lose.
It went to voicemail. I'll text him.
Oh no. Lucca woke up.
-Let's go.
-No, you stay.
I'll head over, all right?
Monkey, wake up. It's the doctor.
-Did he have another seizure?
-No, he's fine. He's asleep.
It's the doctor from India. He's calling.
We'll wake the children. This way.
Just a second, Doctor. Hold on.
Doctor…
We finally meet.
Thank you very much for returning my call.
Alberto Lizárraga showed us
Bruno Bernardi's video,
and we are really impressed.
I can imagine.
The Cytotron will mark a before and after
in the history of medicine.
My colleagues at Harvard
can't believe it either.
But as you saw, it is now a reality.
Yes, it's amazing.
Hello, Doctor. Nice to meet you.
Our son Lucca has severe cerebral palsy
with very frequent epileptic seizures.
In fact, we're at the hospital right now.
And we'd love to know more
about this treatment.
Well, it's not that easy to understand.
But in a nutshell,
let's say it's a machine
that stimulates the brain cells
so they can become active
and create new connections.
Do you think this machine can help Lucca?
The Cytotron has been used
to destroy tumors for many years.
Its neurological use is new.
But I can assure you,
we've seen remarkable progress
in nearly all of our patients.
We're definitely interested
in trying the treatment, Doctor.
I'm glad.
I'll give you my information
so you can send me his file,
as well as all the costs
and other expenses.
Excuse me.
-Sure.
-Hi.
Well, I have to go. We'll be in touch.
Yes, Doctor. We'll send you
all the information. Thanks so much.
See you.
What?
You can't trust every remedy
they wanna sell to us.
-We're cannon fodder for these people.
-This time is different.
I feel like this is our chance.
I mean it.
Wow!
The closest thing to entertainment
I had on my planet
was watching my wounds heal.
Oh! That's… disgusting!
I have a wound too.
But I won't show you
the blood because you'll be shocked.
Fifty thousand dollars, partner?
Plus that guy's travel allowance,
plus our travel expenses.
The question isn't how much it costs,
but whether this
is gonna help Lucca or not.
And if this is the only way,
then money doesn't matter.
It's not that we don't have money.
We owe money.
Our credit cards are maxed out.
Between doctors,
medicine, therapies, treatments.
Where will we find the cash
for you to take Lucca to India?
No. We're taking Lucca to India.
We are all going.
We're all flying to India?
Remember when we went
on a weekend trip? The car still reeks.
How are we going to get that cash?
You know that, moneywise,
this is the worst moment for me.
I've been practically unemployed all year.
It's okay. Better times are coming.
Besides, we can always sell the apartment.
What?
This apartment is all we own.
And we've worked so hard to get it.
Oh no, don't be dramatic.
I'm not. We aren't going to India.
I'm usually in, but not this time.
We won't risk our only property
for a so-called treatment
that they haven't fully explained to us.
To me, this family is all we have.
I know that. That's not
what we're talking about.
I don't care if you think
rubbing my son with lavender oil
is esoteric nonsense.
Or if you think I'm freaking obsessed
when I make him do breathing exercises.
I don't care if you think this won't work.
I think it will.
And that will take us to India.
Whether you like it or not.
Have I told you that you've got
the most beautiful arms?
And very soft skin.
BALANCE
DEBT
ESTIMATE YOUR MORTGAGE
NEED AN EXPRESS LOAN?
Naye, help me hold him.
Yeah. Let's see.
That's it.
Hello.
Want dinner?
No, I'm not hungry.
But I'll finish with him
and I'll join you.
Hey…
It won't be that easy,
but we could mortgage the apartment.
I love you.
These streets…
There we go.
That's it!
-Good morning.
-Good morning, Lucca.
Doctor Jaramillo.
I've got good news. We can afford the trip
to India and receive the treatment.
I await your instructions
on what to do next.
Bárbara…
We're ready for the meeting.
Are you joining us?
How are you, Bárbara?
I talked to my partner, Dr. Kumar,
about your son's case,
and I've got bad news.
For several reasons,
right now we can't use
the Cytotron to treat children.
But I'll let you know when things change.
CYTOTRON DR. KUMAR
We have to make him feel in an environment
that's conducive
to the best possible photo session.
The documents we're reviewing
are in your inbox.
RESEARCH CENTER
The updated version is from the 9th,
because the version from the 5th
doesn't include the changes
we did yesterday.
You got a double six.
That's what I'm saying. Look.
-Not again!
-The ladder let me get here.
How did you do it?
Let me see.
I'm no good at this game.
Doctor Jaramillo.
I know we agreed you'd
call us back when things changed,
but I'd like you to know this treatment
is the first ray of hope for us.
In the world we live in,
everybody thinks Lucca
will never be able to do anything.
That's why it's so important for me
to try out your treatment in India.
Anyways, I'm sorry for this voice message.
We really look forward to your call.
Thank you very much. Namaste.
Doctor, I guess you're very busy,
so you haven't been able
to respond to my messages,
but I'd like to tell you
our situation is still very complicated.
Lucca is getting worse by the day
because he can't eat or move.
And because each epileptic seizure
makes him weaker.
So we'd really like to know how
the permits are progressing over there.
We don't want to be pushy,
but we're really hopeful
about the Cytotron.
We wish you the best this New Year.
Doctor Jaramillo,
it's been nine months
since I first learned about you.
And we are at the hospital again.
We finally decided Lucca
should get a G-button.
And we really don't know
how it will affect his development,
but feeding him is impossible.
And if we don't, he'll die.
I need to talk to you
to find out if the treatment
really is a possibility for Lucca or not.
Thanks a lot, and…
I hope I hear from you soon.
Bye.
Doctor Jaramillo,
I guess you still
don't have good news for us.
But I've continued my research
on the machine and Dr. Kumar's inventions.
And the more I read,
the more convinced I am
that this could change my son's life.
I also met with Bruno Bernardi.
He says that he saw
several children Lucca's age
being treated with the Cytotron.
I don't know if the difficulty in treating
Lucca is the fact that he's a Mexican kid.
But I contacted
the Embassy of Mexico in India.
They're willing to help.
I will do everything I can
to help you travel
to Doctor Kumar’s clinic.
Let me know what else I can do.
I'll do anything.
-Hello?
-Bárbara, it's Doctor Jaramillo.
-Yes.
-Sorry if it's late.
But I'm about to board a plane
and wanted to let you know you did it.
My partner finally accepted
to treat Lucca in the Cytotron.
Can you write this down?
I'll give you the dates and bank details.
Really? I can't believe it.
-Hold on. Monkey, wake up.
-What is it?
You won't believe it.
We're going to India!
Okay.
-Come outside.
-We need to talk.
No.
I don't think it's a good idea, Bárbara.
Why not?
If this thing really worked,
they would've won
the Nobel in Medicine already.
But it’s a very recent discovery.
How can you be sure it doesn’t work?
I can assure you
there is no scientific evidence
that says it does.
It worked for Bernardi.
And it’s on the verge of approval
in the U.S. by the FDA.
Okay, fine.
Let’s say you’re right and I’m wrong.
Nevertheless, a trip to India
for Lucca
is impossible.
-Why impossible?
-Well, where shall I begin?
The right diet for his G-button.
The permits for medicines,
the special chairs.
The risk of an epileptic seizure
on the plane.
Not to mention the diseases
a depressed immune system can catch.
All of that is a threat to his life.
What are you doing?
A list of everything
we need for our trip to India.
I mean, if I get everything you say,
the Valium, the permits,
the diet, the chairs, all of it,
we can do it?
Why do you ask me?
You’ll do it anyway, won’t you?
Well, I also need a disc of his last MRI.
Could you help us with that?
MEXICO
PASSPORT
We continue with the travel arrangements.
We are packing Luqui’s food.
Why are we packing
so many cans and none of my toys?
Because you don’t eat toys.
You're bringing Pipo Rex.
I can eat my other plushies, not Pipo.
Only if I get too hungry.
Let's see, I think
we need another suitcase.
Another one?
We could leave some cans out.
Are you nuts? We can't risk
not finding cans there.
-That's it.
-Nice.
Well, finally,
even though it seemed impossible,
we are flying to India.
Are you ready, Luqui?
Look.
Stop. You might fall, Bruno.
-Okay.
-You did amazing, Luqui.
You're very brave, sweetie.
Soon we'll be boarding another plane.
And we're going to India,
like I promised you.
Andrés!
Two, three…
Four, five, six…
-Eight…
-Turn him sideways.
The oximeter.
Thirteen, fourteen…
Fifteen, sixteen, seventeen,
eighteen, nineteen…
-Andrés?
-Doctor.
Is everything okay?
Sort of.
We're at the Paris airport,
and Lucca had a seizure.
How long did it last?
Six minutes, twenty-seven seconds.
-It was intense, one of the worst.
-How much Valium did you give him?
Two 1-ml doses.
It wouldn't stop.
I thought he needed one more.
Do you think
we should get to the hospital?
If he's admitted,
they won't let you fly for a few days.
And do you think he can fly?
It's over a ten-hour flight.
No, I can't assess that from here.
I warned you it'd be a risky trip.
I know.
But if you choose to fly,
give him a dose of Rivotril before flying
and keep him well hydrated.
Okay. Thanks.
Call me if you need me.
Of course, Doctor. Bye.
What did he say?
He thinks he'll be fine.
So let's relax.
They refused the ambulance.
Yeah, I know. I hope
nothing happens to the child.
I don't know.
Luquita.
We're here, sweetie.
Good job.
Hello.
What's that?
I brought it from the plane
to celebrate we're finally here.
You did it, partner.
Cheers.
We both did.
Well, the five of us.
Cheers, partner.
Cheers.
Yummy.
Hey! You'll finish it. It's tiny.
Well, it's for both of us.
You only brought one?
I might have another one.
Hello!
-Welcome!
-Hi.
-I'm glad you're finally here.
-Thanks.
Hey, Lucca!
Bruno!
You can lick it. It's delicious.
Thanks.
How was your trip?
Is your hotel room comfortable?
The hotel's amazing.
The flight was long and tough.
Yeah, we'd like to have breakfast
before leaving. Is that okay?
Only if it's takeout.
We need to be at the clinic in an hour.
We have to cross
the whole city to get there.
-Well…
-Is that okay?
-Yes, let's go.
-The car's outside.
And the day finally came.
We're on our way
to Lucca's first treatment
at Doctor Kumar's clinic.
And we're here!
Is this the farm
where Lucca will be cured?
It's not a farm.
But there are ducks!
Hey, when are we meeting
the famous Doctor Kumar?
Well, my partner has a very busy schedule.
He's rarely present during treatments,
but don't worry.
You'll be in very good hands.
Come this way.
The damage is here.
The rest of the brain
looks perfectly normal.
But here in this area
is where the lesion is.
It looks like a butterfly.
If you asked me what we're doing here,
I wouldn’t know what to say, Luqui.
But even though I don’t understand
a word they’re saying,
I’m starting to realize
we’ve tried everything.
The only thing left to do
is pray, look upwards, and wait.
Take it, Lucca.
Is everything okay, partner?
My sneakers are gone.
How can that be?
They're gone.
They should be here.
Can I do that?
-No.
-Why not?
If he can do it, why can't I?
I’m right here with you, Luquita.
I'm right here.
Everything okay?
There you go. That's it.
We're almost done
with the first week of treatment.
This is session seven out of twenty-eight.
Are we doing the right thing?
Why do I insist on this treatment
when you've been sick
and anxious for days?
What’s the use
of five people across the world
if all they do is wash towels
and clothes with vomit?
Hello.
Are you spoon-feeding Luqui?
No, he isn’t eating a thing.
-No?
-And he threw up again.
What did you bring me, Mom?
Let’s find out what I brought you.
Look what I brought you.
Are you okay?
Naye, will my tooth fall out soon?
Show me.
-Yeah, it’s pretty loose.
-Look in the drawer.
There's paper and envelopes
with the hotel’s address.
Write a letter to the tooth fairy.
She’ll know where to find you.
Come on, let’s go.
What?
Monkey, I’m very worried about Lucca.
This isn't working.
We’ve been scammed.
I mean, did you see the place?
It’s… it's a farm.
And what's with the machine?
It’s just a tube.
They made an idiot out of me.
I brought you all the way to India.
It's too soon to tell.
But, Monkey, do you see any difference?
Something? Anything?
We need to wait.
It’s not like this is magic.
What if we made a mistake?
Would you do something for me?
Go to bed.
Stop thinking for today, Monkey.
Okay?
-Go.
-Okay.
Luqui!
Luquita?
Are you okay?
Bruno!
Hey, Lucca.
-My tooth fell out.
-Go get your parents!
Luquita!
I lost my tooth!
Oh no, let me see.
I’ll help you find it.
Everything will be fine. Don't worry.
I'm sorry, Luqui.
Sorry for bringing you all this way.
I thought it would help you, sweetie.
I swear it’s been
quite an adventure for him.
What if he dies, Andrés?
It’s been a possibility
since the day he was born.
Yet here we are.
This is unbearable.
I wish I could run away from here, Luqui.
I wish we could fly away
through a hospital window.
To forget for a second this fear
of something bad happening to you.
This throbbing anguish in my chest
since the day you were born.
Bruno!
It's this way.
-Hi, Mom!
-Hi.
How are you?
-Fine.
-Fine?
I want to show Lucca something.
Fine, but no shouting, okay?
Your brother is resting.
How was it?
Fine, what about you? How did you sleep?
Terrible.
I barely slept.
-Really?
-Not a wink.
Lucca…
Lucca.
My tooth finally fell out, look.
See? I've got it here.
They told me the tooth fairy
doesn’t come to India.
Do you know who does?
-A tiger!
-Bruno…
How old were you
when your first tooth fell out?
Naye says I was early.
What is it?
I don’t understand you.
Oh, you want to try my lollipop.
Hold on.
Naye doesn’t know I brought it.
No. What are you doing?
Lucca wanted to try my lollipop.
He's sucking it.
-He's never done that before.
-No.
Lucca.
Come on, suck it.
That’s it, sweetie. Good job, Luqui.
Good job.
Okay, this one captures you here.
But that one captures you there.
-Andrés!
-What?
-Andrés, come here!
-What? What's wrong?
-Is something wrong?
-Look at him! Take a video.
Ready.
This is the first time Lucca grabs
with both hands and holds on.
Before, he'd grab with one hand
and let go of the other right away.
But since water is lighter,
it helps him hold on.
Very good, Luquita!
-Lucca, is bath time over?
-He can stay upright.
-Great!
-Can I get in?
Why are you shouting?
Luqui, sweetie.
You’ve been born again.
The day of your first birth,
we were so excited about the future.
Not knowing that everything would turn out
the opposite of what we expected.
You didn’t cry at birth.
I didn’t hold you in my arms.
You didn’t look me in the eye.
And I couldn’t even feed you.
Doctors warned us to get used to it.
They said you would never
be able to speak or walk.
You can do it.
That you’d never call me "Mom."
-That's it!
-Yeah!
But look at us now, Luqui.
None of them would believe it.
And I'll do everything in my power
so you don’t miss any other chance.
Okay now, be strong.
That day, I didn’t know how to push.
But since then, I’ve learned
to cross oceans and move mountains.
You’ve taught me that.
That's it!
That's it! Bravo!
That's it, sweetie!
Good job, sweetie!
Come on!
Cheers.
Andrés, could you take care of the bill?
I have to give John and Kumar a ride.
And it's getting late.
Thank you.
Good night.
Monkey…
I didn't get the job.
What? The one you were sure you'd get?
A cow on the road!
All right, let’s do a roll call
for our last session with Kumar.
Dad?
Luqui, you're awake!
Da-ddy. Right?
Daddy.
Da-ddy.
What did you say, Luquita?
-Say it.
-Again, say Kumar. Kumar.
-You can do it.
-Kumar.
-Say it. Say Kumar.
-Say Kumar.
He only listens to you.
I can’t believe it!
One more time.
You want to come back, right, Luqui?
Let's go!
There you go.
Kumar is happy with Lucca.
It'll help the Cytotron reach
more children around the world.
-So thank you very much for your effort.
-No, thank you, really.
We’re very happy.
In fact, Kumar told us
Lucca will need more treatments.
Is it true you’re opening
a clinic in Baltimore?
Well, we’re waiting for FDA authorization
to start clinical trials in the U.S.,
but that will take a few years.
Have you ever thought
of conducting them in Mexico?
John Millar said there are
two Cytotrons stuck in Veracruz.
John Millar signed an NDA.
He should be more discreet.
Just so you know,
Mexico is more complex than the U.S.
The bureaucracy, different agendas…
I mean it, forget about it.
But how can this exist
and not be available to everybody?
Let me help you
with the permits in Mexico.
With Lucca’s case,
your testimony, and some allies.
We could talk with Kumar and tell him--
No, hold on.
Kumar has always made clear to me
that he’s not interested
in licensing bureaucracy.
Anything you want to discuss
with Kumar goes through me.
If you’ll excuse me,
I think my plane
leaves earlier than yours.
But we’ll be in touch.
-See you.
-Have a good trip.
Bye!
Strange, right?
Very strange.
I mean, it’s his business,
but I don't know.
He's strange.
Kumar!
Can't you say "Daddy"?
How many of your diapers
has Kumar changed? How many?
Mom, I forgot Pipo Rex.
It’s okay, honey. We’ll buy another one.
You can’t buy friends.
Don’t laugh, Lucca.
Good morning, sunshine.
Doctor Jaramillo,
I hope you had a good flight back home.
Frankly, I haven’t slept much.
Since our last talk at the airport,
I’ve been thinking about ways
to help you get the permit
for clinical trials
for the Cytotron in Mexico.
Maybe I could start
with Lucca’s neurologist.
-This is crazy, Bárbara.
-What?
I'll show you
one of Lucca’s MRIs from last year
so you can compare
the number of brain connections
he used to have with the current ones.
Look at the difference here.
Wow!
It’s… very impressive.
I don’t get how they did that in a month.
So what's next?
Can they keep treating him?
Well, that’s the plan.
But there’s no chance
we can afford another trip like that.
Take a look from this angle.
Would this hospital be interested
in conducting the trials?
Just imagine. If we bring
the clinical trial protocol,
we could continue treating
Lucca and many other children.
No way!
Convincing the old people
on the Committee Board
is like trying to move a mountain.
José, this could save
the lives of thousands of children.
Are you happy to come back to school?
-Good morning, ma'am.
-Hi. Good morning.
What’s wrong, sweetie? What is it?
Shall we go? No?
Why are you crying?
Oh no!
THE NEW MEXICAN MIRACLES
Good night, Monkey.
Monkey.
I've been thinking.
And…
Are you listening to me?
“You've been thinking,”
as in I have to worry?
If what we’re trying to do
at the Children’s Hospital doesn’t work,
we could sell the apartment
and go back to India.
Excuse me for saying this,
but are you serious?
We've been back for less than a month.
Lucca is better than ever.
I'm still unemployed.
And you’re considering selling
the apartment to go back to India?
-I’m thinking of Lucca.
-Exactly.
Maybe you should think
about the rest of us too.
About yourself, about everybody.
-But--
-No. I swear, I’m exhausted.
Good night.
Hello.
Bárbara, did you call me?
I've got missing calls from you.
Yeah, I’ve got great news for you.
Lucca’s neurologist is proposing
the Committee of the Children’s Hospital
to conduct the clinical trials
with the Cytotron there.
Look, I understand you want
the machine to be in Mexico.
But for both Kumar and me,
the priority is to get FDA approval.
That can happen simultaneously.
I’m sure Kumar would love it.
I can write to him and tell him--
Bárbara, let’s make something clear.
Nothing gets to Kumar
without going through me first.
It’s been hard enough to get where we are
in regard to the international
licensing negotiations.
-I don't want anything to interfere.
-Barbie, do you have a sec?
-Please.
-Yes.
I have to go. I’ll call you later.
You know I’ve had your back
since the Lucca thing happened to you.
Since the Lucca thing happened to me?
-You make it sound horrible.
-I'm sorry. No.
What I mean is,
maybe it’s time
to reconsider your priorities.
-I feel--
-You know how long I've been working here?
Fifteen years?
You’ve only been here for a third of that.
Besides, the magazine
hasn’t stopped growing.
So it doesn’t matter
how much time I spend here.
Maybe it does.
Maybe your performance isn't the same.
You’re too invested in your son.
And I need you fully invested here.
Wow.
And I'm very sorry to tell you,
but we're looking for your replacement.
Can I sleep here tonight?
I miss Pipo.
Andrés, he’s having a seizure.
Seventeen, eighteen, nineteen…
Easy.
Relax.
Twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five.
Twenty-five seconds.
It was a short one.
Well, all in all, there’s good news.
There are considerably
fewer epileptic signs now.
In contrast with his last EEG,
they decreased 70 percent. Look.
But with the remaining 30 percent,
he could have
another seizure like yesterday’s.
If he keeps experiencing them,
we could lose all progress.
It depends on the seizure’s intensity,
but yes.
What did the Committee say
about conducting clinical trials here?
They’re open to the possibility.
But before we go there,
the hospital is still unsure
about the treatment.
We need to back up
the proposal with other cases,
other than Lucca’s.
Let’s ask Kumar. I’m sure he’d help us.
In fact, I’ll give you his number
for you to ask him
for the information officially.
It’s not that easy, Bárbara.
Every institute has
its own privacy criteria.
Please.
At least try.
Hello.
I didn’t know you were in Mexico.
Can we talk?
What is it? Is something wrong?
Why did Lucca’s neurologist call Kumar?
I don't know.
Be honest.
Did you connect them?
No.
I spoke with Kumar.
He’s very upset, Bárbara.
-Really upset.
-But why?
We had an agreement, and you broke it.
You have now idea
how much damage you caused.
Kumar is furious.
He wrote me a very aggressive email
because he thinks Ibarra
is a spy from the Mexican government.
A spy?
The Cytotron project
in Mexico is over because of you.
-But--
-But nothing!
The Cytotron is over for Lucca.
It’s over in the U.S.
as well as in Mexico.
It’s over in India.
It's over! All because of you.
But I only wanted to help.
No.
You're selfish.
You ruined years of work by many people.
And you took away from millions of kids
the possibility of accessing treatment.
Imagine how many children
will die of epilepsy because of you.
Just imagine.
You have no idea
why I’m crying. Do you, Lucca?
I screwed up again.
It was my fault.
I desperately wanted to bring
the Cytotron to Mexico.
And now we won’t have it.
Can I get in?
No, Bruno. Bath time is over.
What did you pour in, Bruno?
A magic potion
that will make you strong like dinosaurs.
This is the last thing I needed today!
No, Barbs! Take a shower,
I’ll take care of Lucca.
-But they'll get stronger.
-Get me some rags from the kitchen.
We’d be lost without you, Naye.
No, it's okay.
I’d be lost without you too.
Right, Luquita?
All I wanted was
for Lucca to have an easier life.
Maybe Lucca’s life would be easier
if he wasn't constantly chasing
something he can’t get.
If he had a chance to be who he is.
The person he was meant to be.
And just let our son give up? No.
No, I won’t stop fighting for him.
What’s with fighting all the time?
It’s okay to give up, Bárbara.
It's okay to surrender.
I totally understand
you want the best for Lucca.
So do I.
But not like this.
What do you mean?
I owe it to him.
And the least I can do is try everything
so he has a better life.
We've already discussed this.
You don't owe him anything.
I feel responsible for his condition.
You shouldn't.
You're responsible for Lucca's condition
as much as my mom is
for what happened to my leg.
No, Monkey. That was an accident.
Same with Lucca.
No. I had to push one more time.
And I didn't.
I don't know why, but I couldn't do it.
How would you have pushed
if you passed out?
No, I didn't.
I distinctly remember I saw sparks
and felt the doctors pulling him out.
I don't know, but…
At some point,
they put an oxygen mask on you.
An oxygen mask?
Why?
EL REFUGIO HOSPITAL
Good afternoon.
I'm looking for Doctor Flores Delgado.
Just a second.
Nancy.
Help me with this report, please.
Thanks.
Yours was the most difficult
delivery I've ever tended.
It was a rushed delivery.
The back-to-back contractions
affected your baby's heart rate and…
When we gave you the epidural,
something happened.
It's not very common,
but it happens sometimes.
The anesthesia went upwards and…
paralyzed your diaphragm.
And we…
Well, maybe we could have…
made a different decision.
But we did what we thought was right.
That's why I couldn't push.
Push?
Bárbara, you went into respiratory arrest.
It's a miracle you survived.
And we pulled
your son out as best we could.
Really.
It was a miracle the two of you survived.
Monkey.
Is everything okay?
Where were you?
I visited the hospital
where Lucca was born.
I spoke with the doctor who delivered him.
Really?
What for?
I needed to understand
what happened that day and…
The doctor explained
that I went into respiratory arrest.
Lucca and I nearly died.
I mean, it's a miracle we are here today.
We are very lucky, Monkey.
Mom!
-Yes, sweetie?
-I've got a surprise for you.
But you need to close your eyes.
-Okay.
-Come on.
Let's go.
Not you, just her.
You can open them.
Ta-da!
Now they're dinosaurs,
just like you and Lucca.
I love them, sweetie!
Hello, Diana.
Hi.
-Hello.
-We're here.
We're happy to welcome Lucca.
You're introducing him
to all of your friends.
-Right, Bruno?
-Yes.
That is Diego.
That is Moisés.
That is Emilia.
She's not nice and we don't like her.
You have to go now.
Call me if you need me
and I'll be right over.
Yeah. We'll be okay, don't worry.
Right, Lucca?
Are you excited, Luqui?
All right, I love you. Have fun.
He is Lucca.
WHAT IS TRUE
WHAT ISN'T TRUE
THERE IS NO CLINIC AT JOHNS HOPKINS
My foundation gave him
more than a million dollars
for his center in The States, you know?
-At Johns Hopkins Hospital?
-Yeah, exactly.
We introduced him to many people.
And he asked everyone for money.
And when my mother-in-law
became ill, he promised to take her there.
But the wretch never did.
Not only that,
but when we wanted a copy of the patent,
we learned that the Cytotron
is registered as Jaramillo's invention.
And so is the treatment.
Then we sent Kumar a copy, and he said,
"Impossible, that machine is mine."
It's impressive.
Do you remember how you found out?
Well, sort of by chance, really.
HE REGISTERED CYTOTRON'S PATENT
IN HIS OWN NAME
But then we got to see the registry
and realized it was in Jaramillo's name…
There were more than 50 people.
Among them, several top businessmen…
WHAT IS NOT TRUE
All the alumni know each other…
HE NEVER STUDIED AT HARVARD!!
THE CYTOTRON SOFTWARE
WAS NOT HIS INVENTION
As you can imagine,
learning all this
was very disconcerting to me.
And even more so because it's my son
who's at stake.
I can't give up.
-Because his future is in my hands--
-Monkey.
You sure you don't you want to come
to bed and continue tomorrow?
When Jaramillo gets this email,
he'll have to accept
that we use his machines.
I swear I don't understand
why he isn't in jail.
He knows how to navigate the legal system.
The jerk won't get away
with it this time.
I'll send this to Kumar
and all the investors. He'll see.
In addition…
The ducks are cute, aren't they?
Lucca?
Shall we get ahead of them?
-We'll beat you!
-Careful.
Hold it firmly. Don't turn back.
Right, Luqui?
-Here we come!
-Very good.
No. Keep your eyes straight ahead.
Here we come!
We caught up with them!
Hey, wait for me!
Good job, Luqui.
Good job.
We beat them. We are the champions.
Just you.
Please, listen to this.
What?
Bárbara, you won't believe it.
We have an appointment
with the Secretary of Health.
It seems your email worked.
Jaramillo agreed to let us use
the machines for the clinical trials.
We are a few days away
from getting the COFEPRIS permit.
Come with Lucca.
-Please, come in.
-Thanks.
Hi, Lucca.
-Hello.
-Hi.
-Ready?
-Yes.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
-Why is Jaramillo here? Did you know?
-No.
José Antonio.
Bárbara. Good to see you.
Hello, good afternoon.
We were telling the secretary
that we gave you
the opportunity to test the Cytotron.
Please, have a seat.
All right. Look, Jorge.
This is Lucca.
She's his mom.
And you already know Doctor Ibarra.
Indeed.
Please, Luis, could you read
the document that we're signing today?
Of course, sir.
"As of today's date
and based on the provisions
of Articles 19 and 20
of the General Health Law,
we authorize
the Children's Hospital of Mexico
to conduct a protocol to be approved
for clinical trials
with the technology known as Cytotron."
"In a first stage,
the profile of such tests
will focus exclusively
on the oncological use
of this technology."
No.
-"For the development of--"
-Excuse me, Secretary.
Clearly, the hospital has
a high demand from cancer patients
who will benefit from these trials.
But we also have many
neurological patients such as Lucca.
-Who is here--
-Hold on.
From what Doctor Jaramillo
explained to me,
I understand the approved protocols
of the machine for commercial use
cover arthritis and cancer.
And the acquisition's primary goal
is proven treatment.
But the treatment
works for cases like Lucca's.
We have his file as evidence.
I know, ma'am.
And believe me, I am truly glad
that the treatment worked for your son.
But we're deciding
for the good of a majority.
Not individual cases.
Let's move on to the signing
of the document, if you'd be so kind.
Of course.
Please.
Thank you.
Here you are.
Maybe, after all,
we won't win this battle.
Maybe your dad is right.
Not everything has to be a battle.
And it's okay to surrender.
Or maybe the finish line is not in sight
because we are
long-distance runners, Luqui.
And all we need is to enjoy the process.
To enjoy the view.
To stop and look up to the sky.
It's a pleasure to begin this ceremony.
I'd like to begin
by introducing the doctors
who honor us by attending
this important inauguration.
CHILDREN'S SPECIALTY HOSPITAL
First, I'd like to ask
for a round of applause
for our generous Secretary of Health,
Doctor Jorge Martinez Navarro.
CYTOTRON TECHNOLOGY IN MEXICO
Who honors us with his presence
and is sponsoring this event.
I'd also like to welcome
Doctor José Antonio Ibarra,
chief of this hospital's
Neurology Department.
Mrs. Azucena Monroy.
And Dr. Ricardo Jaramillo.
Thanks to more than two decades
of research by many top scientists,
among whom I am fortunate to count…
Listen, Lucca.
This song would make your dad
and me cry when you were a baby.
What is it, sweetie?
Are you also happy
we're going back to India?
Ma.
What did you say, Lucca?
Mommy.
Lucca…
I love you.
LUCCA AND HIS FAMILY
MADE THREE MORE TRIPS TO INDIA.
CURRENTLY, LUCCA
IS FINISHING ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
IN THE SAME GRADE AS HIS BROTHER BRUNO.
LUCCA HAS BEEN EPILEPSY-FREE
FOR FIVE YEARS
AND HAS STARTED WALKING AND TALKING.
IN AUGUST 2021, BÁRBARA,
ANDRÉS, AND A GROUP OF INVESTORS
BOUGHT TWO CYTOTRON MACHINES
AND OPENED THE FIRST CLINIC OUTSIDE INDIA.
KUMAR CENTER IS IN MEXICO CITY
AND HAS TREATED DOZENS OF PATIENTS
IN THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE.
-Dad.
-Present.
-Naye.
Bruno.
I always have to be first.
Okay, your turn.
Bruno Bianciotto Anderson.
Luquita Bianciotto Anderson.
-Kind of asleep. Venkatesh?
-Present, ma'am.
Mom, present.
-Yeah.
-Bruno, look.
He sits upright.
He couldn't do it, but now he can.
I can hold his legs.
Let's see what happens.
Up! You can do it!
Up, sweetie! Hold your head up!
Bravo!
Good job!
There you go.
We're having such a nice walk.
Don't you think?
Yes?
Subtitle translation by: Fernanda Avalos